### 3. Instructor Demo: POS Tagging and Dependency Parsing (0:10 mins)

This activity introduces students to two important concepts that add grammatical features to text. Part-of-speech tagging is intuitive - each word in a sentence is designated a grammatical part of speech, such as noun, verb, or adjective. Dependency parsing follows this step. Adjectives describe nouns, adverbs describe verbs, nouns can be the subject or object of verbs, and so forth. Each sentence is made of not just the words that it contains but also the relationships that are implicit between them, and a dependency parser is an NLP tool that tries to make these relationships explicit. 

**Files:**

* Solved: [pos_tagging.ipynb](\Activities\01-Ins_POS_tagging\Solved\pos_tagging.ipynb)

Go through the demo line by line, pausing for questions and highlighting these points. 

* Notice that we need to load the language model before using spacy's various NLP tools. If the text we wanted to analyze was in a foreign language, we'd need to load a different model. 

* spacy tokenizes each word and stores the POS and dependency data inside each token. To access them, we need to iterate through each token and access its pos_ attribute. 

* Filtering words by their part of speech is simple - we can use a loop, or even more easily, a list comprehension with a conditional like below.

```python
[token.text for token in sent if token.pos_ == 'NOUN']
```

* Similar to POS, we can print the dependencies of each word. However, because dependencies are relationships, this view will not tell us much. Instead, we can use displacy, a module that visualizes attributes generated by spacy, to view the relationships of words in a sentence. 

* If we want to check what word a token is describing or otherwise related to, we can use the .head attribute. Using conditionals in a list comprehension, we can filter for adjectives that describe a particular word, as we do in the final cell of the notebook. 

```python
[token.text for token in sent if (token.head.text == 'cow' and token.pos_ == 'ADJ')]
```